## The Third Dimension

Halfspaces also exist in the third dimension. Instead of lines, they are
planes. These planes are containers of 3D points.

The exact same dot product point-container calculation used for two
dimensional halfspaces can be applied to their three-dimensional cousins.

The boundaries of our basic 3D objects are now polygons instead of lines.
Each polygon can be oriented with a normal, like our edge normals in two
dimensions. We call such polygons _faces_, which again have their own
associated halfspace.

The object that corresponds to our lower-dimensional _polygon_ is the the
_polyhedron_, a convex set of faces. The rules for a polyhedron are
strikingly similar to the rules for polygons:

- **non-zero**: it has four or more faces.
- **closed**: every segment in the polyhedron belongs to exactly two faces.
- **convex**: every point and segment in every face of the polyhedron is
  _inside_ or _on_ every other face.

### Knives Out

As in two dimensions, we can leverage the fact that faces cut segments to use
faces to cut other faces. The _inside_ and _outside_ parts are faces, and the
_on_ part is a segment.

Faces can thus cut polyhedra; the _in_ / _out_ parts are sets of faces, and the
_on_ part is a set of edges. Note that because of the **closed** property above,
this set is guaranteed to be a cycle, and thus forms a polygon. This polygon
can be used to form opposing faces that close the hole and create two new
polyhedra parts.

This may sound familiar; it is analagous to how we used the _on_ points when
a halfspace cut a 2D polygon to form two edge that closed the two cut parts.

The algorithms for all of these operations are exactly the same as in two
dimensions. Polyhedra can cut other polyhedra, just like how polygons could
cut other polygons. The result is a set of _in_ and _out_ polyhedra.

### Solids

We call these sets of polyhedra _solids_. They have the exact same rules that
their 2D counterparts, the shapes, did (they must be **non-zero** and
**non-overlapping**). The algorithms for cutting solids with polyhedra and
then cutting solids with other solids is exactly the same as with shapes.

The methods for taking a solid that has cut another solid and finding the
union, intersection, and difference of the two is also identical.

And just like that, we've implemented CSG for 3D objects.

### Onward

There's nothing necessarily stopping us now from extending these concepts
into 4D or even higher dimensions. You might understandably question the
usefulness of such a abstract quest.

While there are far fewer practical applications, one notable example is
collision detection of two objects that are moving simultaneously. This is a
calculation that physics engines must constantly perform in many modern
games.

However, we end our discussion here. Instead, we will next turn our attention
to how we can make these operations run quickly.